+++
title = 'JCC Articles: 1940s'
weight = 1
draft = false
+++

## 6/7/1945 — Walter Blau Gets Bronze Star for Bravery

WITH THE SECOND INFANTRY DIVISION IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA Pfc. Walter Blau, of 235 Market Street, Bangor, Penna., recently was awarded the Bronze Star for gallantry in action on {illegible} -ing General, Major General Walter M. Robertson.

He is the husband of Mrs. Gertrude Blau, 235 Market Street, Bangor, Penna.

The group, along with Pfc. Blau and First Lieut. Werner R. Haller, was one vehicle detached from the Regimental Column and was in doubt as to whether the wooded area through which it was passing had been cleared by friendly troops.  After driving several miles without seeing any sign of American soldiers, the group encountered a 60-yard roadblock and were forced to stop.  In their recent experiences road had all been manned by enemy troops.  Nevertheless the value of any information which could be obtained outweighed the inclination to effect an immediate withdrawal.  Lt. Haller ordered the three men to positions of concealment covering the approaches to the road block.  The man advanced quickly and almost immediately discovered the presence of German soldiers.  It was quite obvious now that this road had not been traveled by the 9th Combat Team Column, but despite the manifest danger these men displayed a calm self-possession worthy of seasoned combat soldiers.  Lt. Haller ordered the nearest German to summon the senior officer present.  Soon an NCO and a messenger stepped forward, covered by Staff Sgt. Levi.  T-4 Hingst and Pfc. Blau disarmed them after ascertaining that some 80 enemy troops were in the immediate vicinity.  Lt. Haller directed the NCO to assemble his men on the road.  The German, uncertain as to our strength and apparently bluffed by the demeanor of our soldiers, surrendered his men.  Disarmed, the two enemy platoons marched down the road to give themselves up to the Third Battalion, Ninth Infantry.  Lt. Haller attributes the success of this episode entirely to the cool and soldierly behavior of the three men who were cited.

---

## 9/14/1945 — Yom Kipper to be Observed in Bangor

The Jewish Day of Atonement, or Yom Kipper, occurs this year on Sunday night, September 16th and 17th.  It is observed by Jews everywhere as a day of prayer, repentance, and fasting.  The Eve of the holiday is marked by a religious service called Kol Nidrel because of an ancient and beautiful prayer which is chanted on this occasion asking for forgiveness even for the sins which were committed unwittingly and unwillingly.

The prayers read on this day are for forgiveness for sins in recognition of the doctrine of individual responsibility for the acts committed by the petitioner.  Purification comes only through the realization that each must make amends by prayer, fasting, and good deeds, and the sincerity of his purpose to purify is life is the measure of his forgiveness.

The Book of Jonah, which its _______ on the equality of all men before God, is read on this day, stressing the interest in democratic ideals and the brotherhood of man.  Most congregations hold a Memorial Service in memory of those who have passed on since the last Memorial Day, on the afternoon of the Day of Atonement.  The Memorial Service consists of the magnificently beautiful “_______”, a prayer which is read in memory of the righteous of every nation and every creed.  This is in keeping with the Jewish religion which stresses the belief that “the Righteous of every nation have a portion in the world to come.”

---

## 2/13/1946 — Mrs. Joel Rogat Raising Funds for Needy

In order that Bangor and its environs might assist in many ways with the relief of displaced persons, and destroyed homes and property in Europe, Mrs. Joel Rogat of town has started a “one woman campaign” to raise funds and receive what ever possible to be sent to this area.  This effort was brought the fore when Max Winkler, local industrialist returned from a trip through the areas in Europe and witnessed the frightful conditions.

The thousands of needy and homeless children and people unsheltered from the elements, lacking clothing and food and at the mercy of the ravenous pestilence are now wandering throughout Europe, in all countries.  These people must be cared for and America again has been asked to assist.  Presently Mrs. Rogat is conducting her drive through the community and receiving many good size contributions.

It has been announced that the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah will join with Mrs. Rogat in her effort.  This organization will sponsor a bazaar sometime during the month of March the proceeds from which will be given entirely to the work of relief for European people.  Further announcements will be forthcoming in the next several weeks.

---

## 9/25/1946 — Jewish Community Center Offered for 1946-1947 Term

The present Board of Directors of the Community Kindergarten and Nursery were re-elected and four additional directors elected for the 1946-47 term, to bring the total to 14, at a meeting of the board to which the public was invited and lightly attended, held in Mackey Memorial Baptist church last evening.  Rev. Fenton I. Laucks, president of the board, was in charge.  The new members are:  Mrs. Samuel Korn, Mrs. Charles Fischler, Harry Laveton and Mrs. Woodrow W. Horn.  The member reelected are:  Rev. Laucks, Rev. Horace Wright, Rev. F.H. Fletcher, Mrs. Helen Mutch, W. Heber Jones, Mrs. Kenneth Masters, David Stodard, Mrs. S.H> Hamm, Mrs. Warren Kressler and Rev. Norman A. Robinson.

W. Herbert Jones, treasurer, reported the cost of last years kindergarten nursery, including transportation and milk charges, to be $1755.13;  while but $1116.86 was received from tuition and registration fees, but inasmuch as donations totaled $945, the treasury has on hand $336.72 to start of the years work.  The average cost of operating both schools per month was $219.39.  The loss per each student per month insofar as tuition and fees were concerned was $3.93 the treasurer stated.

Rev. Wright, it reporting on this year’s registration to date reported 21 children have registered for the kindergarten, while but four nursery students have indicated their child’s attending.  However, several late registrations are expected, and it was intimated at the meeting that both schools would have sufficient students to warrant the continuance this year.

For the present at least, the kindergarten school will be held in St. John’s Evangelical and the Nursery win the Salem Evangelical, as last year.

It was announced that the Jewish Community Center, the former Welsh Shiloh Methodist church at present under repairs and which Samuel Korn is president, has been offered for use by the center for either the Nursery or Kindergarten classes free of charge.  The board will vote on this generous offer at a later date when renovations are completed.

Both Mrs. William Schankel, the nursery school teacher, and Mrs. A.M. Williams, kindergarten teacher, were present and spoke briefly on the work accomplished last year and on their curriculum for the coming year.  The teachers particularly stressed the need of a victrola in their classes.

Mrs. S.H. Hamm and Mrs. Kenneth Masters, in speaking for two of the school’s sponsoring organizations, the Senior and Junior Women’s Clubs, announced a concert in F.U. Evangelical church, October 29, as a benefit financially to the schools, and of a $150 donation from the Junior Club.

Rev. F.H. Fletcher closed the public meeting with an offering of prayer.

---

## 12/5/1946 — Hadassahs Observe Festival of Hanukah

The Festival of Hanukah was celebrated and the birthday of Henrietta Szoid, founder of Hadassah, observed when the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah met at the local Jewish Community Center last evening.   Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, president, was in charge.

Mrs. Harry Laveton directed the program, of which included the exchange of gifts as is customary on the occasion of Hanukah, and a social time was enjoyed.

---

## 12/11/1946 — Jewish Community Center Donates to Community Chest

A regular meeting of the Jewish Community Center of Bangor was held Tuesday night.

Pres. Sam Korn announced that the building has been completely paid for and deed in organizations name recorded.  Also that the charter has been received.  Although most major alterations have been completed, it was pointed out that it is very difficult to obtain furnishings and several months will be required to attain this.  Because of this, formal opening and dedication will have to be postponed until the interior is more nearly complete.

The meeting unanimously voted at $100 contribution to the Bangor Community Chest, the proceeds of which was raised among the membership present.

---

## 12/13/1946 — Sisterhood of Jewish Community Center Elects New Officers

The meeting of the Sisterhood of the Jewish Community Center was held at the Center Thursday evening.  The officers elected for the coming year are:  Mrs. J. Rogat, president;  Mrs. H. Linnick, vice president;  Mrs. A. Wolff, secretary;  and Mrs. H. Laveton, treasurer.  After the business meeting a social hour was held.  Refreshments were served by hostesses, Mrs. Melnick and Mrs. Rogat.

---

## 12/3/1947 — Announce Birth

Born to Mr. and Mrs. Sidney I. Babat, of Pen Argyl, a baby girl at the Beth Israel Hospital, Newark, N.J.

---

## 1/29/1947 — Mr. & Mrs. Jacob Melnick, Eddie Rosenberg Feted at Jewish Community Center

A dual celebration was held last evening at the Jewish Community Center in honor of the 40th wedding anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, well-known Bangor Shirt Manufacturers and Edward Rosenberg, local clothing manufacturer who recently announced his retirement from business after conducting two plants successfully for the past 18 years.

The celebration was sponsored by the members of the Jewish Center of which Sam Korn is president.  Following the serving of a sumptuous luncheon and refreshments the celebrants were presented with beautiful gifts.  The presentations were made by the president, Sam Korn.

Meyer Feinberg of Easton, was elected to serve as the toastmaster for the evening’s entertainment.  During the course of the evening, Mrs. Joel Rogat appeal to the guest for support n the drive for the “March of Dimes,” $50 was collected and will be turned over to the local chairman.

Among the guests and members present at the celebration were Mrs. Molly Berkowitz, Mrs. Walter Blau, Mr. and Mrs. Emil Hertz and family of Pen Argyl;  Max Kaplan, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Korn, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Linnick, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. S. Ravitz, of Pen Argyl;  Mr. and Mrs. Morris Schnitzer;  Mrs. A. Sandler, Mrs. Charles Sobelman, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson;  Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schecter, Mr. and Mrs. Albert Share, Mr. and Mrs. E. Tauber, Mr. and Mrs. A. Wolff and family;  Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Shmookler and family;  Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Babit;  Mr. and Mrs. Allen Leopold;  Dr. and Mrs. David Gruber of Easton, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Cohen of Easton, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. Joel Rogat, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Scheinberg and family, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Leavitt and Max Lieberman.

---

## 1/30/1947 — Sobelson Gets $351 from Polio Theater Drive

Ralph Sobelson, manager of local theatres last evening reported that he had received a total of $351.61 in collections for this year’s drive for the March of Dimes to aid polio victims.  This exceeds his collection last year when he reported some $266 collected.  In fact, Mr. Sobelson indicated it was the largest amount ever collected through his theatres for this cause since its inception.

The report in detail as released last evening by Mr. Sobelson showed that a total of $239.74 had been received in collections at the Strand Theatre in Bangor;  that a total of $31.54 had been received in the Music Hall Theatre in Bangor last Saturday evening;  that a total of $30.33 had been collected in the Strand Theatre in Roseto last Sunday evening and that a collection of $50 had been received at the recent celebration held in Bangor’s New Jewish Community Center.

---

## 2/11/1947 — Kindergarten Class Moves to Jewish Community Center

The Kindergarten class taught by Mrs. Armon Williams, moved its class rooms to the Jewish Community Center on Fourth St. yesterday morning.  The quarters at the Salem Evangelical-United Brethren Church, location of both Kindergarten classes this year to date, were too crowded.  The class taught by Mrs. William Schankel, will remain, it was announced.  Samuel Korn, serving as chairman of the school’s location committee of the Kindergarten Board, made the necessary arrangements for the change.

The Kindergarten Board wishes to express thanks to the Salem Church for their fine cooperation in entertaining the classes this year and to the Jewish Community Center for their willingness in allowing children to enjoy their headquarters.

Announcement was made by the board that both classes are in need of dolls, empty boxes, cupboards and portable phonographs.

---

## 2/20/1947 — Pre-School Program At Jewish Community Center On Friday

Mary Jane Red of East Stroudsburg State Teachers College will present a sound movie on pre-educational and pre-school age mothers at the Jewish Community Center on Friday evening at 8:00 o’clock.  The kindergarten board members and mothers will donate refreshments which will be served by the teachers, Mrs. Armon M. Williams and Mrs. William Schankel.  This is the first of a series of programs planned to aid mothers and teachers to better acquaint and realize the accomplishments of the school.

---

## 2/23/1947 — Hadassah Club Fete Husbands

Members of the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah entertained their husbands and guests at a social held last evening in the Jewish Community Center when Attorney Israel Krohn of Easton was the guest speaker.  Attorney Krohn, who was introduced by Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, president of the local chapter spoke to the large gathering on the theme “Zionism.”

In addition to the by Attorney Krohn, a film on “The Life of Hen Szold.”  In the drawing for the special prize awarded by the local center of a set of luggage, the winner was declared to be Mrs. Samuel Korn.  A social evening of refreshments climaxed the evening.

---

## 10/8/1947 — Ralph Sobelson Installed Head Of Local Center

Ralph Sobelson, local theater owner, was named and installed as president of the Jewish Community Center at the annual election and installation exercises held last evening in the Center’s social rooms.

Others taking office were:  Edward Rosenberg, re-elected to the vice presidency;  Abe Sandler, secretary and Everett Melnick, treasurer.  The board of directors is composed of the following:  Jacob Melnick, Harry Laveton, Samuel Ravitz, Samuel Korn and Joel Rogat.  The sisterhood directors includes:  Mrs. Joel Rogat and Mrs. Ruth Ravitz.

Following the installation the regular routine of business was held.  It was reported that the altar, pulpit and pews will be installed within the next six to eight weeks.  At that time the Center will also operate a synagogue.  Refreshments and luncheon followed the meeting.

---

## 10/9/1947 — Local Hadassah Chapter Has First Fall Meeting

The Bangor Chapter of Hadassah held its first meeting of the new year last night at the home of Mrs. Emil Hertz.  Mrs. Ralph Sobelson presided. 

During the business session, plans were discussed for raising funds for the destitute, displaced peoples of Europe and Palestine.  It was decided that the best plan for fulfilling the great need is to sponsor a souvenir year-book in conjunction with the annual donor dinner in the spring.

A social hour followed the business meeting.

---

## 12/16/1947 — Joel Rogat Feted On Birthday at Jewish Center

Joel Rogat, prominent local shirt and blouse manufacturer was tendered a surprise party at the Jewish Community Centre, the occasion marking his birthday anniversary.  The party was given by his daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Shemberg of 508 Market Street, Bangor.

A large birthday cake from with the inscription, “to dad” from “Miriam, Irving, and Lois” formed the table’s centerpiece decoration.  During the course of the party the celebrant was present with a beautiful robe and other gifts.

Luncheon was served and refreshments were enjoyed.  Entertainment was provided by Mrs. Leopold and Mrs. Laveton who presented a sketch entitled “The Feast of the Lights.”

Among those attending were Edward Rosenberg, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Shor, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. Emil Hart, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Laveton, Mr. and Mrs. Al Share, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schecter, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein, Mrs. R. Wolffe and Larry Wolffe, Mr. and Mrs. Abe Sandler, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Ravitz, Mr. and Mrs. Leopold, Irving Edelson, Henry and Jerry Weissman, the celebrant, Joel Rogat and Mrs. Rogat, and Mr. and Mrs. Irving Sheimber and daughter Lois.

---

## 11/26/1948 — Joel Rogat, Shirt Manufacturer and Jewish Center Founder Is Dead

Joel Rogat, 77, leading Slate Belt Shirt Manufacturer, died at his home at 508 Market street at 4:30 a.m., today after a 3 month illness.  Born is Russia, he came to New York City at an early age and engaged in the textile business.  He started the Joel Rogat Shirt business, in Bangor, 20 years ago.

He was a member of the Vitebsk Benevolent Association of New York City and a founder of the Jewish Community Center in Bangor.  He was also a member of the Pennsylvania Manufacturing Association.

Survivors include his wife, Mrs. Ada Rogat, three daughters, Mrs. A. Rubinowitz and Mrs. Abram Levin of Brooklyn and Mrs. Irving Sheinberg of Bangor, four grandchildren and one sister, Mrs. L. Harrowitz of Brooklyn, N.Y.

Mr. Rogat was a well known philanthropist and contributor to many charities.

Funeral services will be held on Sunday from the Gutterman Funeral Chapel in New York City.  Please omit flowers.

Memorial services were held at one o’clock today at the Jewish Community Center with Rabbi Dr. Louis Katsoff of the Congregation Children of Abraham, of Easton officiating.  A large number of relatives and friends attended.

---

## 1/1/1948 — Front of synagogue in 1948 - From David and Jennifer Blau

{Photo}

---

## 1/1/1948 — Inside of synagogue in 1948 - From David and Jennifer Blau

{Photo}

---

## 1/14/1948 — Local Hadassah Group to Meet

The regular monthly meeting of the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah, the organization of American Zionist women, nearly 250,000 strong, will be held this evening.

Hadassah was founded 35 years ago.  Its aims expressed in the progressive development of a country-wide system of hospitalization, public health and child welfare, in the evolution of a vocational education program, and through the rescue and rehabilitation of refuge youth.

It was maintained by Hadassah that the health of the pioneer was fundamental as the plow with which the desert sands were turned, as the canals through which the swamps where drained and the reclaimed fields were irrigated.  A country beset by malaria, trachoma, and dysentery must first be made safe for modern pioneering.  Without the best scientific research and hospitalization facilities, without the most modern maternal and child care, vocational education and retraining of refugee youth, no Jewish state could flourish.

These have been and still are the tremendous tasks of the Hadassah – its program toward rebuilding the ancient homeland as a modern democracy.

---

## 4/8/1948 — Bangor Hadassah Chapter Plans Card Party

A card party to be held on Saturday, May 8, at the Jewish Community Center was planned last evening when the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah met at the center with the president, Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, in charge.  Mrs. Elizabeth Wolff and Mrs. Albert Share were named to the committee.

The annual dinner of the charter also was scheduled for Wednesday, May 26, but the place was not decided up on at this time.

Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein, chairman of the yearbook, rendered a very favorable report on this endeavor, and Mrs. Abraham Sandler, in charge of the cultural program, favored with a reading, assisted by Mrs. Samuel Korn and Mrs. Rubenstein.

A social hour and the serving of refreshments culminated the gathering.  Mrs. Charles Schecter, Mrs. Sidney Babat, and Mrs. Share were the hostesses for the occasion.

---

## 4/13/1948 — Sisterhood Of Local Community Center To Meet Tomorrow

Mrs. Joel Rogat, president of the Sisterhood of the local Jewish Community Center has called a special meeting for tomorrow evening at the Center.  The meeting is scheduled to get underway at 8 o’clock sharp and Mrs. Rogat urges everyone to be present as extremely important matters pertaining to the good work of the Sisterhood with be discussed.

---

## 4/15/1948 — Mrs. Abram Sandler Elected President Of Jewish Sisterhood

A meeting of the Jewish Community Sisterhood was held on Tuesday evening, April 14th.  At that time election of officers was held.

Those elected were:  President, Mrs. Abram Sandler, vice president, Mrs. Walter Blau;  recording secretary Mrs. Albert Share;  corresponding secretary, Mrs. Harry Cohen;  treasurer, Mrs. Harry Laveton;  honorary president, Mrs. Joel Rogat;  honorary vice president, Mrs. Lennick.

A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. Rogat for her splendid work in the past years.  Refreshments were served and enjoyed.

---

## 4/27/1948 — To Meet

The regular meeting of the Jewish Community Center will be held this evening.  Following the  routine business a social hour will be enjoyed.

---

## 4/28/1948 — Synagogue Group Furthers Plans

Plans for the conversion of the Jewish Community Center into a synagogue were furthered last evening during a meeting held at the center, Ralph Sobelson, president, in charge.  Dedication services for November were announced.  A full complement of members was present.

---

## 5/28/1948 — Hadassah Installs New Officers At Dinner Meeting

The annual dinner meeting of the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah was held last night at Ye Saylor’s Inn.

New officers were installed for the coming year.  They are Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, president;  Mrs. Allan Leopold, vice-president;  Mrs. Charles Schrecter, treasurer;  Mrs. Sidney Babbitt, reporting secretary, and Mrs. F. Leavitt, corresponding secretary.

A play was presented entitled “Certificate of Entry” and adaptation from the radio program “Eternal Light.”  The cast included Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein, Sandra and Arnold Allabach, Abraham Sandler.  The narrator was Sidney Babbitt.

---

## 6/4/1948 — Jewish Community Center Has Final Spring Meeting

The last meeting of the Jewish Community Center Sisterhood in Bangor was held Wednesday at the Jewish Community Center.  It was preceded by a diner at the Colonial Hotel.

Mrs. Goldman a visitor from Easton, affiliated with the National Women’s League ______ the out going officers and welcomed the new officers.

New officers are, president, Mrs. Abraham Sandler;  honorary president, Mrs. Joel Rogat;  vice president, Mrs. Walter Blau;  honorary vice-president Mrs. Lennick;  recording secretary, Mrs. Albert Share, corresponding secretary, Mrs. Harry Cohen; and treasurer, Mrs. Harry Laveton.

Mrs. Goldman explained the various duties of the officers and plans were made for a children’s Sunday School program.

The meeting was concluded with a very inspiring verse by Mrs. Goldman.

---

## 6/23/1948 — Rabbi To Arrive At Jewish Center Tomorrow Night

Rabbi Harold Schulweiss who is currently attending studies for a doctor’s degree at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City is expected to become spirit- 

Community Center when the group meets tomorrow evening at 8 o’clock to decide the permanent plans for the center’s future activities.

Rabbi Schulweiss will arrive in Bangor tomorrow evening and the local Jewish Center officers are urging every member to be present at this session.

A Hebrew Sunday School will be conducted every Sunday and services directed by Rabbi Schulweiss will possibly be held every other week.

---

## 6/25/1948 — Rabbi Schulweiss Prepares Program For Jewish Center

Rabbi Harold Schulweiss, newly named spiritual leader of the Bangor Jewish Community Center, who is currently attending studies for a doctor’s degree at the Jewish Theological Seminary, New York City, spoke at the gathering held last evening in the local Jewish center.

In his talk, Rabbi Schulweiss stated that if the members followed the age-old traditions of the Jewish peoples, they would become better citizens in their community.  Following his address, he presented a religious and social program for the center, for the fall, which was approved as presented, at the business meeting of the center, with Ralph Sobelson, president, presiding.

It was stated that prior to the dedication of the center, which will be held in September, the Ark and Scrolls will be dedicated, with a definite program arranged for the year.

Following the business session, the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the center served refreshments to the more than 60 members of the center attending.

---

## 9/8/1948 — Jewish Center To Dedicate Synagogue On September 26

Final plans for the dedication of the local synagogue and community center were made last evening at a meeting of the Jewish Community Center, Ralph Sobelson, president, presiding.  The ceremony is scheduled to take place on Sunday afternoon, September 26.  Further particulars on the program will be available at a later date.

---

## 9/27/1948 — Capacity Audience Attends Jewish Community Center Dedicatory Rites Sunday

Formal dedication of the Jewish Community Center of Bangor, which occupies what was formerly the Welsh Methodist Episcopal Church edifice on South Fourth street, took place yesterday afternoon with a capacity audience, including numerous out of town guests, in attendance.

Everett J. Melnick, program chairman, offered the message of welcome and subsequently introduced the various visitors who were  to extend words of congratulation on behalf of the organizations they represented, while Rabbi Harold M. Schulweiss, who is to serve as the religious leader at the center, gave the dedicatory address in the absence of Rabbi Joshua Trachenberg, of Easton who, Rabbi Schulweiss also offered the invocation.

Greetings were brought from the Borough of Bangor by Ernest Turtzo, veteran councilman and former council president;  the Rev. J. Laurence Carr, pastor of the First Methodist church, representing the Bangor Ministerial Association;  the Jewish Community Council of Easton, with Emmanuel Siegel serving as spokesman;  the National Jewish Welfare Board, Jack Sher, of Easton, the speaker;  and the Easton Y.M.H.A., George Weitzman, its president extending congratulations.

Presentation of the charter was made by Attorney J. Lawrence Davis to Samuel H. Korn, founding president and the latter in turn, presented the key to Ralph Sobelson, current president, and Mrs. Abraham Sandler, president of the Sisterhood.  Mr. Korn, together with Edward Rosenberg, vice president;  Irving Edelson, treasurer, and Morris Schnitzer, secretary were the first elected officers of the center.

Bearer of Torah during the preceding processional were Julius Dickstein, Henry Himelstein, and Edward Rosenberg.  Mrs. Allan Leopold and Mrs. Elizabeth Wolff, respectively, officiated at the lighting of the Eternal Light and the Menorah while the dedication of the ark and pulpit was conducted by Reuben Rosenberg.

Liturgical music was sung during the processional by Cantor Stanley Sobelson, accompanied by Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein.  Subsequent musical selections were also sung by Cantor Sobelson.  The singing of Hatikvah was led by Mrs. Walter Blau, with Mrs. Rubenstein accompanist.

Rabbi Louis Katzoff, of the Congregation Children of Abraham, Easton, led in the responsive readings.  Rabbi Schulweiss pronounced the benediction.

The red brick building, with its distinctive bell tower vari-colored windows, which is occupied by the center has been a community landmark since 1890.  The lot on which it stands was acquired by the trustees of the Welsh Methodist Church in the late 1880’s the building constructed a decade later, and the property conveyed by the trustees to the Shiloh Methodist Church on November 10, 1891.  For more than half a century, divine worship was conducted there, usually in Welsh.

When a merger of the Shiloh congregation with the First Methodist Church was effected on February 14, 1946, the land and building were placed on sale and later acquired by the Community Center group the deed being delivered on November 1, 1946.  Extensive renovations followed until the interior of the building assumed its present splendid form.

Current plans for the use of the center call for bi-weekly services in charge of Rabbi Schulweis.  There also will be a Sunday School for children.  Forums for the general public are also contemplated.

Charter members of the center include:

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Babat, Mrs. M Berkowitz, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Blau, Mr. Louis Brower, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Cohen, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Edelson, Mr. and Mrs. Emil Hertz, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Korn, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Laveton, Miss Fannie Leavitt, Ms. Allan Leopold, Mr. and Mrs. Everett J. Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. J. Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Ravitz, Mr. and Mrs. Joel Rogat, Mr. Edward Rosenberg, Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Sandler, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schecter, Mr. and Mrs. Morris Schnitzer, Mr. and Mrs. Ben Schor, Mr. & Mrs. Albert Share, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Sheinberg, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Shmookler, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, Mr. David Swartz, Mr. Henry Weissman, Mr. Jerry Weissman, Mrs. Elizabeth Wolff.

One charter member, Abraham Wollfe was lost by death.  His son, Irwin B., also died in the Philippines while with the country’s armed forces.

---

## 10/11/1948 — Special Services

The Day of Atonement services at the Bangor Jewish Community Center will begin tomorrow afternoon at 5:15 o’clock with Rabbi Harry Schulweis in charge.  Services will be resumed on Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

---

## 10/13/1948 — Yom Kippur To End At Sundown

Sundown today will mark the end of Yom Kippur, or the Day of Atonement, the most solemn holy day in the holy day in the year for followers of the Jewish faith.

The observance concludes ten days of penitence and prayer which was ushered in by Rosh Hashanah.

Yesterday’s observance was marked by services at the local Jewish Community Center at 5:15 p.m.  Services continued today, starting at 9 a.m., Rabbi Harold Schulweis in charge.

---

## 11/10/1948 — Sobelson Re-elected Jewish Community Center President

Election of officers took place last evening at the annual re-organization meeting of the Bangor Jewish Community Center held at the association’s center, and Ralph Sobelson was returned to the presidency as a result of the balloting.

Also named to office are:  Edward Rosenberg, vice president;  Abraham Sandler, secretary; and Everett Melnick, treasurer.  Harry Cohen, Harry Laveton, Maurice Schnitzer, Sidney Babbitt and Jacob Melnick were elected to the board of directors, and Joel Rogat was named honorary vice president.

---

## 11/26/1948 — Joel Rogat, Shirt Manufacturer, Jewish Center Founder, Is Dead

{Duplicate – see above article}

---

## 2/10/1949 — Jewish Community Center Plans Fund Raising Campaign

A covered dish supper and a combined meeting of the Bangor Jewish Community Center and the Sisterhood of the Center, was held on Tuesday evening at the Home on Fourth street with president Ralph Sobelson, presiding.

All committee chairmen submitted favorable reports.  Plans are currently underway for a fund raising drive.  Several projects from which funds can be derived are under speculation.

---

## 2/17/1949 — Hadassahs Discuss State of Israel

A Hadassah meeting was held at the home of the president, Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, last evening.  The education portion of the program consisted of a discussion on the State of Israel, its government, cabinet structure and leaders.

During the social program a dramatic reading on “Arbor Day in Israel” was presented.

Mrs. Ralph Sobelson and Mrs. Alan Leopold, Youth Aliyah chairman, who recently attended the Youth Aliyah’s Fifteenth Anniversary celebration in New York reported on the ceremonies that were arranged by the groups national Youth Aliyah committee at the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.  Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, head of the committee’s advisory board, received the first Henrietta Szold citation and award for humanitarian service, during the meeting.  Miss Szold, America’s leading woman Zionist and pioneer in social work of the rank and generation of Jane Addams and Lillian Walk, founded Hadassah in 1912 and died in Jerusalem on February 13, 1945.  The event was celebrated simultaneously by Hadassah, the Women’s Zionist Organization of America.

Youth Aliyah’s 15th Anniversary

Aliyah means ascent, in Hebrew.  Literally this migration has been an ascent of thousands of children from a living death to security and freedom.  The road was rough and long and not all the youngsters made it.

Youth Aliyah’s fifteenth anniversary was marked with the opening of a new children’s reception center at Alonim, a half hour’s motor ride inland from Haifa.  The center, called Szold House in tribute to Baltimore-born Henrietta Szold, who at the age of seventy-three undertook the job of moving Jewish youngsters out of Germany and directing their education and care in Palestine.  During the eleven years she held the job her operations spread to every country in Europe.

---

## 4/12/1949 — Mrs. Sobelson Reelected Head Of Hadassah’s

Mrs. Ralph Sobelson was re-elected president of the Hadassah, for her fourth consecutive term during the meeting of the organization, held at the home of Mrs. Jacob Melnick.  Other officers elected were:  Mrs. Emanuel Hertz, vice-president;  Mrs. Lennick, second vice-president;  Miss Fannie Leavitt, corresponding secretary;  Mrs. Sidney Babat, recording secretary;  Mrs. Charles Schecter, treasurer;  Mrs. Harry Cohen, membership chairman and Palestinian supplies;  Mrs. Allen Morgan, chairman of American affairs;  Mrs. Albert Share and Mrs. David Auerbach, co-chairmen of the Hadassah Medical organization;  Mrs. Irving Sheinberg, Youth Aliyah;  Mrs. Allen Leopold, Child Welfare and Mrs. Abraham Wolff, Social chairman.

Miss Leavitt presented a report on J.N.F., for the trees planted in Israel and a letter was read from Mrs. Dora Levin congratulating the Bangor group on the excellent work they are doing.  Announcement was made that the regional convention will be held in Harrisburg, Pa on May 21, 22, and 23.

A program, The Eternal Light, will be broadcast over radio station WEAF, April 24, at 12:30 p.m. and the public was urged to listen.

Hostesses for the meeting were:  Mrs. Melnick, Mrs. Sandler and Mrs. Edelson.

---

## 6/9/1949 — Community Service At Jewish Center

The Jewish Community Center today announced that an open community service will be held on Friday at 8:30 p.m. in the Center, located on South Fourth St.

Rabbi Harold E Schulweis will officiate at the combined service and several ministers from the Bangor church will participate.

---

## 6/15/1949 — Mark Anniversary

A community service marked the third anniversary of the Bangor Jewish community center Friday night.  Rabbi Harold Schulwers, of New York City was principal speaker.

Ralph Sobelson, president of the center, extended the welcome and introduced Rabbi Schulwers, the Rev. Fenton I. Laucks, of St. John’s Evangelical and Reformed Church;  the Rev. Frederick R. Gibson, of the Presbyterian Church, and the Rev. Lester C. Updegrove, of the Salem Evangelical United Brethren Church.

Other representatives included Harry E. Flory, of the Bangor Kiwanis Club, and A.C. Oberholtzer of the Bangor Chamber of Commerce.  Brief talks were given by each.

Close to 100 attended the service.

---

## 9/29/1949 — Ira Feinberg Opens $18,000 Jewish Drive

A spirited address by Ira Feinberg, 19 year old veteran of the recent Isrealean War, marked the opening of a ten day campaign in the Slate Belt area to raise $18,000 for the United Jewish Appeal, the local share of the National goal of two and one half million dollars.

Feinberg, a resident of Long Island, N.Y. was the first American to join the fighting forces of Israel and his address before a capacity crowd at the Jewish Community Center in Bangor last evening, cited his experiences at the front and told of his observations in Europe, where he lived for a short time in a transient center in France.  He gave a warm and dynamic account of the major United Jewish Appeal aims as he told of the struggle to defend and build a new life in the new Jewish State.  He was introduced by R. Abramson, field representative of the United Jewish Appeal, who spoke briefly.

Chairman of the local drive, Morris Schnitzer, termed the inauguration of the drive very successful.  Ralph Sobelson, president of the Jewish Community Center, delivered a few remarks on behalf of the Appeal, announcing that indications point to a successful campaign.

Mrs. Shirley Schnitzer served as chairman of the dinner committee, assisted by Mrs. Elizabeth Wolff and Mrs. Rose Leopold.  Dinner guests of co-chairman Edward Rosenberg, attended.

In addition to chairman Schnitzer, other committee members, who arranged for the affair, included:  Harry Cohen, David Auerbach, Abe Sandler, Irving Edelson, Harry Laveton, Samuel Ravitz and Ralph Sobelson.

---

## 10/17/1949 — Concert Tomorrow

Plans for the piano concert by Paul Schocker of Easton, tomorrow evening at the First United Evangelical Church, have been announced as complete by the committees in charge of the affair.  The concert is under the combined auspices of the Senior Choir of the First United Evangelical Church and the Jewish Community Center.

---

## 11/16/1949 — Harry Cohen Elected Jewish Center President

Harry Cohen was elected president of the Bangor Jewish Community Center, during the annual election of officers last evening at the local center.  Other officers named were:  Edward Rosenberg, vice-president;  Abe Sandler, secretary;  Morris Schnitzer, treasurer;  and Ralph Sobelson, David Auerbach, Ben Shor, Walter Blau and Harry Laveton, board of directors.

It was announced that installation ceremonies will be conducted on November 26.

---

## 8/9/1949 — Rabbi Schulweis To Be Speaker At Kiwanis Meeting

Rabbi Harold Schulweis, of the Jewish Community Center in Bangor will be the guest speaker at the regular weekly meeting of the Bangor Kiwanis Club, Thursday evening at the Colonial Hotel.  Rabbi Schulweis will be introduced by Ralph Sobelson, program chairman for the affair.

On August 26 the club will hold their annual picnic and covered dish supper at Flory’s Grove.  Ross Common Members, wives and families of the Bangor Kiwanis club will attend.

Beginning September 1 the Kiwanis club will hold all of their meetings at the Colonial Hotel.

---

## 8/12/1949 — Rabbi Schulweis Gives Stirring Address on Israel, Its People At Kiwanis Club Dinner-Meeting

Members of the Bangor Kiwanis club heard a stirring description of Israel and its people when Rabbi Harold Schulweis of the Jewish Community Center in Bangor delivered the main address last evening at the Colonial Hotel.  Introduced by program chairman Ralph Sobelson, Rabbi Schulweis’ address was “Creative aspects of modern Israel today.”  He pointed out that the new nation faces mountainous housing problems, as well as employment and said that “Israel as all the cultures of America today, but lacks the progressive ideas we here in America have incorporated.”  He told of the morale and spiritual degeneration of Jewish people, following the war, when six million Jews were exterminated by the Germans.  He said that almost all of the labor in Israel is manual, for machinery has yet to reach that nation.  He remarked that Israel’s chief export, and principally the only export, is citrus fruit.  The response to Rabbi Schulweis’ address was delivered by David Stoddard.

A report on the Donkey baseball game, played Wednesday night in Saylorsburg, with the West End Lion’s club, was submitted by secretary George Remegan, who announced that the club had realized a profit of $90.41 from the affair.  Remegan also announced that all is in readiness for the Kiwanians participation in the street festival, sponsored by the War Memorial committee to be held this evening and Saturday at the corner lot at First and Broadway.  He called for volunteers to assist in supervising the ice cream concession this evening.

Club president William Walter had charge of the meeting.  The song leader was Rev. Seba H. Hamm, who also pronounced the invocation and James Drury played the piano.

The next meeting well be held at Hockreins Grand view, near Portland.

---

## 9/14/1949 — Jewish Center Plans Recital For October 18

A benefit recital by Paul Schocher of Easton was planned for October 18, when members of the local Jewish Community Center convened for their first fall meeting last evening.  The concert will be sponsored jointly by the Jewish Community Center and the First United Evangelical church in the auditorium of the First United Evangelical church.  Mr. Schocher, a pupil of the late Earl D. Laros, is a graduate of Julliard School of Music in New York City and has presented a number of recitals for benefit affairs throughout the Lehigh Valley.  This will be his first appearance locally.

Mrs. John Hoffman will serve as chairman for the affair, representing the First United Evangelical church and Harry Laveton will chairman the recital as a representative of the Jewish Community Center.

Ralph Sobelson, president of the local Jewish Community Center, presided at the meeting last evening.

---

## 9/20/1949 — Mrs. Schulweiss Wins Drawing At Jewish Center

Mrs. Harold Schulweiss was the winner of a hand-made beaded purse in a special drawing Saturday evening at a party held at the Jewish Community Center, with the Sisterhood has hostesses.  This special drawing was for the benefit of the Hadassah Medical Organization.

Announcement was made of the special services to be held Friday evening and Saturday and Sunday mornings in observance of the holiday commencing at sundown on Friday and continuing until Sunday.  Rabbi Harold Schulweiss will be in charge of the services.

Hostesses at the gathering were Mrs. Emil Hertz, Mrs. Samuel Ravitz, and Mrs. Harry Laveton.

---

## 9/22/1949 — Reports Given At Hadassah Meeting

Reports on the Hadassah Medical organization and the Jewish National fund were presented by Mrs. E. Hertz and Miss Fannie Levitt, respective chairmen, when the Hadassah Society convened at the local Jewish Center last evening.

Announcement that the National Convention will be held in Los Angeles, Calif. In November was made by the president of the society, Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, who presided.  It was also announced that Mrs. David Morris of Lancaster, Pa., representative of the South Eastern region, will be present at the next meeting in October to be held at the home of Mrs. M. Kaplan of Pen Argyl.

The program for last evening was in charge of the committee headed by Mrs. Harry Cohen.  Hostesses were:  Mrs. Morris Schmictler, Mrs. Ben Schor and Mrs. Allan Morgan.

---

## 10/19/1949 — Appreciative Audience Enjoys Piano Recital Given by Paul Schocker

A large and appreciative audience attended the concert presented by Paul Schocker of Easton in the First United Evangelical Church last evening.

Sponsored jointly by the Senior Choir of the First United Evangelical Church and the Bangor Jewish Community Center, Mr. Schocker’s program was varied, ranging from compositions by Schumann, Beethoven, Chopin and Bach to those of the modern composers, Debussy, Khatchaturian and Prokofier.

The Chaconne by Bach with variations by Busoni and the Tocata by Khatchaturian where played superbly and especially appreciated by professional musicians in the audience.  The Moonlight Sonata by Beethoven was breathtakingly beautiful.  The Aeolian Harp, by Chopin;  Patorale, by Scarlatti;  The Music Box, by Liadov;  and LaFille aux Cheveaux Lin, by Debussy were played with an amazing variety of tone color, warmth and delicacy.

Mr. Schocker was introduced enthusiasm of his audience by favoring with encores, Clair de Lune by Debussy;  Ritual Fire Dance by Mozart;  and the novel and amusing “Bread and Butter Waltz”, a delightful “tongue in cheek” number played with one finger.

Mr. Schocker was introduced by Harry Laveton of the Jewish Community Center, who together with Mrs. John N. Hoffman of the senior choir of the First United Evangelical Church was co-chairman of the affair.

Other committee members included Mrs. Cecil Honey and Mrs. Walter McFall of the Senior Choir and Mrs. Harry Laveton and Abraham Sandler of the Jewish Community Center.

---

