+++
title = 'JCC Articles: 1960s'
weight = 3
draft = false
+++

## 9/6/1960 — Remember When Column - 9/6/1930

30 Years Ago

After two weeks of installation work by Buzzard Electric Co., under the supervision of Western Electric engineers, a new $10,000 sound system was ready to offer us a first talking picture performance at the Strand Theatre.  Manager Ralph Sobelson’s initial offering was “Safety In Numbers” starring Buddy Rodgers, to be followed by “New Movie Follies of 1930” featuring El Brendo, Marjorie White and Frank Richardson.

---

## 1/4/1960 — Henry Weissman, Noted Local Manufacturer, Dies New Year's Day in N.Y.

Henry Weissman, Columbia, N.J., prominent Bangor businessman and one of the leading supporters of Jewish appeals in the Northampton County area died of a heart attack New Year’s Day in New York City.  He was 68.

He owned the J. Rogat Shirt Co. and Welsrog Manufacturing Co. both in Bangor, and several years ago acquired the ______ Blouse Co., Stroudsburg.

Mr. Weissman came to Bangor more than 30 years ago _________ with Joel Rogat of a manufacturing plant.  Mr. Rogat died ___ years ago.

His first mill was located at Pennsylvania Ave. and Division St., and later was transferred to the Kor Bros. Building on Pennsylvania Ave. near 1st St., Bangor.  For the past 15 years the J. Rogat Shirt Co. has been in operation at 1st and Broadway.  Welsrog Manufacturing Co. is located at 31 N. 1st St., Bangor.

Mr. Weissman suffered a heart attack a year ago and since then had been serving only in a supervisory capacity at the three plants.  His son, Jerry, Easton, has been general manager of both plants in Bangor.

Surviving are his wife, Mrs. Stella Weissman, three sons, Hyman, of Brooklyn, N.J.;  Jerry, of Easton, and Sidney, of Bangor.

The funeral was held at 11 a.m. yesterday at Westminster Chapel, Brooklyn, N.J.  Burial was in Montifore Cemetery at Pine Lawn, _______ Long Island, N.Y.  Viewing was held in the chapel Saturday night.

A three-day mourning period will be held at the home of his son, Jerry Weissman, 312 Old Orchard Rd., Easton where friends may pay their respects.  In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be given to the local Cancer Society, or Heart Fund, or made in Mr. Weissman’s memory to the family.

---

## 1/14/1960 — Harry Laveton, Merchant, Civic Leader, Dies at 56; Rites in Easton Tomorrow

Harry Laveton, 56, businessman, civic leader and Jewish Charity Appeals worker died suddenly this morning at 6 o’clock at his residence, 118 South Third Street, Bangor.

Owner and operator of Murry’s Cut Rate Store, Laveton came to Bangor 31 years ago.  An energetic worker with good business aptitude, he once owned and controlled a chain of 14 stores throughout this part of the state.  He has since either sold or liquidated his assets in 13 of them and was currently operating the Bangor store only.

Born in Philadelphia in 1903, he was a son of the late Samuel and Minnie Share Laveton.  He was the husband of Polly Cohen Laveton.

He was a member and immediate past president of the Bangor Kiwanis Club.  He was one of the charter members of the Bangor Jewish Community Center.  He also held membership in the Easton Jewish Community Center.  He was a 32nd degree Mason and member of the Bangor Elks Lodge, No. 1106.  The Congregation B’Nai Abraham, Easton; and the Bangor Chamber of Commerce.

Surviving in addition to his wife are three brothers and one half-brother:  Morris Laveton, Stroudsburg, Max Laveton, Patterson; Irving Laveton, Philadelphia; and Ruben Oren, Philadelphia.

Funeral services will be held tomorrow afternoon at 1 o’clock at the Katinis Funeral Chapel, 2102 Northampton St., in Easton.  Relatives and friends may pay their respects at the funeral chapel from 11 a.m. tomorrow until the time of the funeral at 1 p.m.

---

## 1/20/1960 — Leave for South

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson left today for Miami, Fla., where they will vacation for several weeks.  En route they will visit Mr. Sobelson’s brother and wife, Mr. and Mrs. Henry, in Atlanta, Ga.  The latter couple will celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary.  The Sobelson’s plan to join in the observance.

---

## 1/26/1960 — Remember When Column - 1-26-45

Three Bangor residents upon whom were bestowed the privilege of American citizenship were Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Tauber, 95 ½ No. Main St.;  Mrs. Walter Blau, 235 Market St.

---

## 5/4/1960 — Remember When Column - 5/4/45

The Bangor group of Hadassah elected Mrs. M. Berlin of Pen Argyl, as president, also named to office Mrs. M. Schnitzer, of East Bangor; Mrs. A. Sandler, Mrs. A. Leopold, Mrs. Ben Schor and Mrs. S. Leavitt, of town.

---

## 5/9/1960 — Remember When Column - 5/9/40

Mrs. Mollie Berkowitz, who conomore at East Stroudsburg State Teachers College, was elected to the school’s Women’s Executive Council.

---

## 6/13/1960 — Remember When Column - 6/13/40

Edythe E. Winkler, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Max Winkler, 633 Northampton St., was graduated (June 10) from Bucknell University, receiving a BS degree in Commerce and Finance.

---

## 7/5/1960 — Remember When Column - 7/5/45

15 Years Ago

Mr. and Mrs. Max Winkler, of R.D. 3 announced the marriage in France on June 23 of their daughter, Cpl. Teresa Winkler, of the WAC, to Pvt. William Baldwin, Jr., Lebanon, Pa.  Both were stationed in France, although Pvt. Baldwin had received orders of a transfer to the Pacific Theater of War.

---

## 7/7/1960 — Remember When Column - 7/7/40

William Berkowitz, son of Mrs. Mollie Berkowitz, of 32 Broadway and Pearl Goldman, of Easton, were wed by Rabbi Louis Wein, of Congregation B’nai Abraham, Easton, at the home of the bride’s parents.

---

## 12/21/1960 — Remember When Column - 12/21/45

The J. Rogat Shirt Mfg. Co., Joel Rogat and Henry Weissman, proprietors, held open house to mark completion of extensive renovations to the third floor of its plant in the four-story building at the corner of First St. and Broadway.  The firm, established n 1902, and located in Bangor since 1929, had recently purchased the building.  Management personnel included Irving Sheinberg, general manager;  Antoinette Sabatino and Blanche Pinto, chief clerks;  Nicholas LaPenna, Thomas Verona, Pasquale Damico, foremen, Joseph Ruggiero, machinist-manager;  Jerry Weissman, recently honorably discharged from service, new staff member.

---

## 6/2/1961 — Remember When Column - 6/2/1936

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Cohen, of So. 1st St., spent the weekend with Mrs. Cohen’s family at Port Chester, N.Y.

---

## 7/3/1961 — Remember When Column - 7/3/1936

25 Years Ago

Grand re-opening of the newly-renovated Strand Theatre, with its new marquee and neon sign plus interior redecorating and new projecting machines with less “flicker”, was set for July 6 with the film, “Fury”, starring Spencer Tracy and Sylvia Sidney as the feature attraction.

---

## 7/17/1961 — Remember When Column - 7/17/1946

Attending a birthday party for Richard and Allen Schnitzer, twins, at the East Bangor home of their grandfather, Edward Rosenberg, were Carolyn and Joanne Wilson, Corwin Parsons, Jane Parsons, Billy Stine, Barry Moore, Crissy McFall, George and Lee Davis, David and Jeffery Parsons, Wayne Oyer, Larry Parsons, Billy Bray, Mrs. Moses Bray, Mrs. Leroy Parsons, Mrs. Benjamin Davis.

---

## 12/4/1961 — Remember When Column - 12/4/1926

Mrs. Mollie Burkowitz and Mrs. Charles Toll returned from New York City where they spent several days.

---

## 12/5/1961 — Remember When Column - 12/5/46

The Festival of Hanukah was celebrated and the birthday anniversary of Henrietta Szold, founder of Hadassah, was observed when the Bangor Chapter of Hadassah met at the local Jewish Community Center.  Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, president was in charge of the business meeting and Mrs. Harry Laveton directed the program.

---

## 12/13/1961 — Remember When Column - 12/13/46

The meeting of the Sisterhood of the Jewish Community Center was held at the center last evening.  The officers elected were:  Mrs. J. Rogat, president;  Mrs. H. Linnick, vice president;  Mrs. A. Wolff, secretary, and Mrs. H. Laveton, treasurer.  After the business meeting a social hour was staged.  Refreshments were served by Mrs. J. Melnick and Mrs. Rogat who acted as hostesses.

---

## 12/27/1961 — David Blau Omitted from Honor Roll

David Blau was unintentionally omitted from the first honor roll list in the 10th grade.  We are sorry.

---

## 2/10/1961 — Remember When Column - 2/10/46

Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, of So. 2nd St., visited her daughter, Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein, at East Orange, N.J.  The latter was awaiting the imminent return of her husband from overseas duty with the U.S. Army.

---

## 2/20/1961 — Remember When Column - 2/20/46

It was disclosed that William Winkler, son of the owner of the Blue Ridge Textile Co., was instrumental in bringing to machine production in this country many rare fabrics previously loomed only by hand in Germany.  Winkler designed many of the weaves to suit particular needs of top fashion designers.

---

## 3/22/1961 — We're Not Moving

Well Made Novelty Company is not moving out of Bangor, it was announced today by Nathan Melnick owner of the plant.  Contrary to rumors in circulation we have no plans nor intention of leaving our present location on Murray Street.

As pioneers in textile manufacturing in Bangor, we are proud and happy to consider this community our home.

---

## 4/28/1961 — Mr. And Mrs. R. Sobelson To Leave May 1st for a Tour Through Europe

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, owners and operators of the Strand Theatre and the Strand Shop respectively, will leave May 1 for a European tour.

They will depart from the New York Harbor aboard the USS Independence.  They will first visit Italy and then make a tour of Switzerland, France and the Netherlands.

The Sobelsons will return state-side on June 15 aboard the Staatendam.

---

## 5/9/1961 — Remember When Column

Max Cohen, of Easton, rented the storeroom formerly occupied by the Weiner Lunch on Broadway from Mrs. Mollie Berkowitz and planned to open a jewelry store.

---

## 1/15/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/15/1947

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson of 138 South Second Street have announced the betrothal of their daughter Miss Recia Sobelson to Frank Wolff son of Mrs. Helen Wolff of New York City.

---

## 2/1/1962 — Remember When Column - 2/1/1947

Ralph Sobelson, manager and owner of local theatres last evening reported that he had received $351.61 in collections for this year’s drive for the March of Dimes to aid polio victims.  This exceeds the collections of last year when he reported collections of $226.  Mr. Sobelson reported that the amount received this year was the largest ever received through his theater collection program.

---

## 2/28/1962 — Remember When Column - 2/28/1947

William Winkler, Blue Ridge Textile Company executive has received recognition in the current issue of “Life” an article on Pages 70 and 72 relative to Burning Dresses picturing a fire restraint dress fashioned from nylon tulle and crediting the fabric creation to Mr. Winkler.

---

## 10/8/1962 — Remember When Column - 10/8/1947

Ralph Sobelson, local theatre owner, was named and installed as president of the local Jewish Community Center at the annual election and installation held last evening in the Center’s social rooms.  Others taking office were Edward Rosenberg, reelected as vice president;  Abe Sandler, secretary, and Everett Melnick, treasurer.  The board of directors is composed of Jacob Melnick, Harry Laveton, Samuel Ravitz, Samuel Kern and Joel Rogat.  The sisterhood directors include:  Mrs. Joel Rogat and Mrs. Ruth Savitz.  Following the installation the regular routine of business was held. It was reported that the altar, pulpit and pews will be installed in the worship area within the next six to eight weeks.  At that time the Center will also operate as a Synagogue.  A social hour of refreshments closed the meeting.

---

## 10/17/1962 — Remember When Column - 10/17/1942

Miss Recia Sobelson, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson of South Second Street has become a member of the Phi Kappa Epsilon sorority at Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York.

---

## 10/25/1962 — Remember When Column - 10/25/1952

Memorial services for Mrs. Nettie Linnick were held Tuesday evening during a the meeting of the local chapter of Hadassah at the home of Mrs. Harry Laveton on South Third Street.  Mrs. I. Sheckman of Scranton, the regional representative of Hadassah was an observer at the meeting.  The meeting was in charge of Miss Fannie Leavitt, president.  The secretary’s report was made by Mrs. Harry Cohen and Mrs. J. Frankel offered the report of the treasurer.  Other reports were made by Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, Mrs. Lawrence Wolff and Mrs. Abraham Sandler.  Following the business meeting a social hour was enjoyed with refreshments being served by the following:  Mrs. Laveton, Mrs. Allan Leopold, and Mrs. Walter Blau.

---

## 10/30/1962 — Remember When Column - 10/30/1942

One scrap matinee a month will be featured at the Strand Theatre to aid the drive for scrap to help win the war, Ralph Sobelson, manager and owner announced today.  The Strand Theatre drew over one and one half tons of scrap during the newspaper scrap drive recently.  Children under 12 years of age are admitted fee if they come with five pounds of scrap.

---

## 12/18/1962 — Remember When Column - 12/18/1947

Joel Rogat, prominent local shirt and blouse manufacturer was tendered a surprise party at the Jewish Community Centre, the occasion marking his birthday anniversary.  The party was given by his daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Shemberg of 508 Market Street, Bangor.

A large birthday cake from with the inscription, “to dad” from “Miriam, Irving, and Lois” formed the table’s centerpiece decoration.  During the course of the party the celebrant was present with a beautiful robe and other gifts.

Luncheon was served and refreshments were enjoyed.  Entertainment was provided by Mrs. Leopold and Mrs. Laveton who presented a sketch entitled “The Feast of the Lights.”

Among those attending were Edward Rosenbert, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Shor, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, Mr. and Mrs. Emil Hartd, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Laveton, Mr. and Mrs. Al Share, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schecter, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Rubenstein, Mrs. R. Wolffe and Larry Wolffe, Mr. and Mrs. Abe Sandler, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Ravitz, Mr. and Mrs. Leopold, Irving Edelson, Henry and Jerry Weissman, the celebrant, Joel Rogat and Mrs. Rogat, and Mr. and Mrs. Irving Sheimber and daughter Lois.

---

## 12/19/1962 — Remember When Column - 12/19/1947

The regular business meeting of the Bangor Chamber of Commerce at large was held last evening in the Bangor Jewish Community Center with George Remagen, vice president in charge of the session.  Officers for the coming year were nominated for office as a main order of business.  Those named to stand for election were:  Robert A. Smith, president;  George B. Plush, Jr., first vice president;  the Rev. Seba H. Hamm, second vice president;  Harry Deshler, treasurer.  The following men were nominated to run for the board of directors:  Harry Laveton, Ralph ________, Kenneth Ace, and Kenneth Masters.  It was announced that the annual dinner meeting and the election of officers will be held at the Colonial Hotel on Jan. 8.

---

## 1/9/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/9/1947

The January meeting of the local Hadassah was held at the home of Mrs. Ben Schor last evening with Mrs. Ralph Sobelson, president in charge.  A fund raising project was planned with tickets being offered for sale through the Strand Shop on Broadway.

---

## 1/17/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/17/1914

48 Years Ago

Mr. and Mrs. Kaplan Cohen last evening entertained a number of friends at a banquet at their home on Market Street on the occasion of their second wedding anniversary.  The guests were Jacob Shane, Mr. and Mrs. I. Schwartz, Mr. and Mrs. Sol Pearlman, Max Pearlman, Max Poliner, Mr. and Mrs. S.D. Shane of Bangor;  Harry Cohen, Nathan Cohen and W.R. Bricker of Easton;  Miss Pansy Freeman of Bath Beach and Harry Schwartz of Philadelphia.

---

## 1/17/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/17/1947

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Edelson are parents of a baby girl, Maxine Ann, born Sat. Jan. 11 at the Easton Hospital.  Mrs. Edelson is the former Miss Dorothy Melnick.  On Monday, Jan. 13, a daughter Ellen Diane, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Melnick at the Easton Hospital.  Both infant girls are the grandchildren of Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, local industrialists.

---

## 1/31/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/31/1947

15 Years Ago

A dual celebration was held last evening at the Jewish Community Center in honor of the 40th wedding anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Melnick, well known Bangor shirt manufacturers and Edward Rosenberg, local clothing manufacturer who recently announced his retirement from business after running two plants successfully for the past 18 years.  The celebration was sponsored by the Jewish Community Center of which Samuel Korn is the president.  The master of ceremonies was Mayer Feinberg of Easton.

---

## 1/31/1962 — Remember When Column - 1/31/1947

Miss Recia Sobelson, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sobelson of town and Frank E. Wolff, son of Mrs. Helen Wolff of New York City were married recently in New York City.

---

